# podman-5.4.0 Farm Commands

*This document contains Farm commands from the Podman documentation.*

## Table of Contents

- [podman-farm-build - Build images on farm nodes, then bundle them into
a manifest list](#podman-farm-build)
- [podman-farm-create - Create a new farm](#podman-farm-create)
- [podman-farm-list - List the existing farms](#podman-farm-list)
- [podman-farm-remove - Delete one or more farms](#podman-farm-remove)
- [podman-farm-update - Update an existing farm](#podman-farm-update)

<a id='podman-farm-build'></a>

## podman-farm-build - Build images on farm nodes, then bundle them into
a manifest list

##  NAME

podman-farm-build - Build images on farm nodes, then bundle them into a
manifest list

##  SYNOPSIS

**podman farm build** \[*options*\] \[*context*\]

##  DESCRIPTION

**podman farm build** Builds an image on all nodes in a farm and bundles
them up into a manifest list. It executes the `podman build` command on
the nodes in the farm with the given Containerfile. Once the images are
built on all the farm nodes, the images will be pushed to the registry
given via the **\--tag** flag. Once all the images have been pushed, a
manifest list will be created locally and pushed to the registry as
well.

The manifest list will contain an image per native architecture type
that is present in the farm.

The primary function of this command is to create multi-architecture
builds that will be faster than doing it via emulation using
`podman build --arch --platform`.

If no farm is specified, the build will be sent out to all the nodes
that `podman system connection` knows of.

Note: Since the images built are directly pushed to a registry, the user
must pass in a full image name using the **\--tag** option in the format
*registry***/**\_repository\_**/**\_imageName\_\[**:**\_tag\_\]\`.

##  OPTIONS

#### **\--add-host**=*hostname\[;hostname\[;\...\]\]*:*ip*

Add a custom host-to-IP mapping to the container\'s `/etc/hosts` file.

The option takes one or multiple semicolon-separated hostnames to be
mapped to a single IPv4 or IPv6 address, separated by a colon. It can
also be used to overwrite the IP addresses of hostnames Podman adds to
`/etc/hosts` by default (also see the **\--name** and **\--hostname**
options). This option can be specified multiple times to add additional
mappings to `/etc/hosts`. It conflicts with the **\--no-hosts** option
and conflicts with *no_hosts=true* in `containers.conf`.

Instead of an IP address, the special flag *host-gateway* can be given.
This resolves to an IP address the container can use to connect to the
host. The IP address chosen depends on your network setup, thus there\'s
no guarantee that Podman can determine the *host-gateway* address
automatically, which will then cause Podman to fail with an error
message. You can overwrite this IP address using the
*host_containers_internal_ip* option in *containers.conf*.

The *host-gateway* address is also used by Podman to automatically add
the `host.containers.internal` and `host.docker.internal` hostnames to
`/etc/hosts`. You can prevent that by either giving the **\--no-hosts**
option, or by setting *host_containers_internal_ip=\"none\"* in
*containers.conf*. If no *host-gateway* address was configured manually
and Podman fails to determine the IP address automatically, Podman will
silently skip adding these internal hostnames to `/etc/hosts`. If Podman
is running in a virtual machine using `podman machine` (this includes
Mac and Windows hosts), Podman will silently skip adding the internal
hostnames to `/etc/hosts`, unless an IP address was configured manually;
the internal hostnames are resolved by the gvproxy DNS resolver instead.

Podman will use the `/etc/hosts` file of the host as a basis by default,
i.e. any hostname present in this file will also be present in the
`/etc/hosts` file of the container. A different base file can be
configured using the *base_hosts_file* config in `containers.conf`.

#### **\--annotation**=*annotation=value*

Add an image *annotation* (e.g. annotation=*value*) to the image
metadata. Can be used multiple times.

Note: this information is not present in Docker image formats, so it is
discarded when writing images in Docker formats.

#### **\--authfile**=*path*

Path of the authentication file. Default is
`${XDG_RUNTIME_DIR}/containers/auth.json` on Linux, and
`$HOME/.config/containers/auth.json` on Windows/macOS. The file is
created by **[podman login](podman-login.html)**. If the authorization
state is not found there, `$HOME/.docker/config.json` is checked, which
is set using **docker login**.

Note: There is also the option to override the default path of the
authentication file by setting the `REGISTRY_AUTH_FILE` environment
variable. This can be done with **export REGISTRY_AUTH_FILE=*path***.

#### **\--build-arg**=*arg=value*

Specifies a build argument and its value, which is interpolated in
instructions read from the Containerfiles in the same way that
environment variables are, but which are not added to environment
variable list in the resulting image\'s configuration.

#### **\--build-arg-file**=*path*

Specifies a file containing lines of build arguments of the form
`arg=value`. The suggested file name is `argfile.conf`.

Comment lines beginning with `#` are ignored, along with blank lines.
All others must be of the `arg=value` format passed to `--build-arg`.

If several arguments are provided via the `--build-arg-file` and
`--build-arg` options, the build arguments are merged across all of the
provided files and command line arguments.

Any file provided in a `--build-arg-file` option is read before the
arguments supplied via the `--build-arg` option.

When a given argument name is specified several times, the last instance
is the one that is passed to the resulting builds. This means
`--build-arg` values always override those in a `--build-arg-file`.

#### **\--build-context**=*name=value*

Specify an additional build context using its short name and its
location. Additional build contexts can be referenced in the same manner
as we access different stages in COPY instruction.

Valid values are:

-   Local directory -- e.g. \--build-context
    project2=../path/to/project2/src (This option is not available with
    the remote Podman client. On Podman machine setup (i.e macOS and
    Windows) path must exists on the machine VM)
-   HTTP URL to a tarball -- e.g. \--build-context
    src=https://example.org/releases/src.tar
-   Container image -- specified with a container-image:// prefix, e.g.
    \--build-context alpine=container-image://alpine:3.15, (also accepts
    docker://, docker-image://)

On the Containerfile side, reference the build context on all commands
that accept the "from" parameter. Here's how that might look:

::: {#cb1 .sourceCode}
``` {.sourceCode .dockerfile}
FROM [name]
COPY --from=[name] ...
RUN --mount=from=[name] â€¦
```
:::

The value of [name](#name) is matched with the following priority order:

-   Named build context defined with \--build-context [name](#name)=..
-   Stage defined with AS [name](#name) inside Containerfile
-   Image [name](#name), either local or in a remote registry

#### **\--cache-from**=*image*

Repository to utilize as a potential cache source. When specified,
Buildah tries to look for cache images in the specified repository and
attempts to pull cache images instead of actually executing the build
steps locally. Buildah only attempts to pull previously cached images if
they are considered as valid cache hits.

Use the `--cache-to` option to populate a remote repository with cache
content.

Example

::: {#cb2 .sourceCode}
``` {.sourceCode .bash}
# populate a cache and also consult it
buildah build -t test --layers --cache-to registry/myrepo/cache --cache-from registry/myrepo/cache .
```
:::

Note: `--cache-from` option is ignored unless `--layers` is specified.

#### **\--cache-to**=*image*

Set this flag to specify a remote repository that is used to store cache
images. Buildah attempts to push newly built cache image to the remote
repository.

Note: Use the `--cache-from` option in order to use cache content in a
remote repository.

Example

::: {#cb3 .sourceCode}
``` {.sourceCode .bash}
# populate a cache and also consult it
buildah build -t test --layers --cache-to registry/myrepo/cache --cache-from registry/myrepo/cache .
```
:::

Note: `--cache-to` option is ignored unless `--layers` is specified.

#### **\--cache-ttl**

Limit the use of cached images to only consider images with created
timestamps less than *duration* ago. For example if `--cache-ttl=1h` is
specified, Buildah considers intermediate cache images which are created
under the duration of one hour, and intermediate cache images outside
this duration is ignored.

Note: Setting `--cache-ttl=0` manually is equivalent to using
`--no-cache` in the implementation since this means that the user does
not want to use cache at all.

#### **\--cap-add**=*CAP_xxx*

When executing RUN instructions, run the command specified in the
instruction with the specified capability added to its capability set.
Certain capabilities are granted by default; this option can be used to
add more.

#### **\--cap-drop**=*CAP_xxx*

When executing RUN instructions, run the command specified in the
instruction with the specified capability removed from its capability
set. The CAP_CHOWN, CAP_DAC_OVERRIDE, CAP_FOWNER, CAP_FSETID, CAP_KILL,
CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE, CAP_SETFCAP, CAP_SETGID, CAP_SETPCAP, and
CAP_SETUID capabilities are granted by default; this option can be used
to remove them.

If a capability is specified to both the **\--cap-add** and
**\--cap-drop** options, it is dropped, regardless of the order in which
the options were given.

#### **\--cert-dir**=*path*

Use certificates at *path* (\*.crt, \*.cert, \*.key) to connect to the
registry. (Default: /etc/containers/certs.d) For details, see
**[containers-certs.d(5)](https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-certs.d.5.md)**.
(This option is not available with the remote Podman client, including
Mac and Windows (excluding WSL2) machines)

#### **\--cgroup-parent**=*path*

Path to cgroups under which the cgroup for the container is created. If
the path is not absolute, the path is considered to be relative to the
cgroups path of the init process. Cgroups are created if they do not
already exist.

#### **\--cgroupns**=*how*

Sets the configuration for cgroup namespaces when handling `RUN`
instructions. The configured value can be \"\" (the empty string) or
\"private\" to indicate that a new cgroup namespace is created, or it
can be \"host\" to indicate that the cgroup namespace in which `buildah`
itself is being run is reused.

#### **\--cleanup**

Remove built images from farm nodes on success (Default: false).

#### **\--compat-volumes**

Handle directories marked using the VOLUME instruction (both in this
build, and those inherited from base images) such that their contents
can only be modified by ADD and COPY instructions. Any changes made in
those locations by RUN instructions will be reverted. Before the
introduction of this option, this behavior was the default, but it is
now disabled by default.

#### **\--cpp-flag**=*flags*

Set additional flags to pass to the C Preprocessor cpp(1).
Containerfiles ending with a \".in\" suffix is preprocessed via cpp(1).
This option can be used to pass additional flags to cpp.Note: You can
also set default CPPFLAGS by setting the BUILDAH_CPPFLAGS environment
variable (e.g., export BUILDAH_CPPFLAGS=\"-DDEBUG\").

#### **\--cpu-period**=*limit*

Set the CPU period for the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS), which is a
duration in microseconds. Once the container\'s CPU quota is used up, it
will not be scheduled to run until the current period ends. Defaults to
100000 microseconds.

On some systems, changing the resource limits may not be allowed for
non-root users. For more details, see
https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/main/troubleshooting.md#26-running-containers-with-resource-limits-fails-with-a-permissions-error

This option is not supported on cgroups V1 rootless systems.

#### **\--cpu-quota**=*limit*

Limit the CPU Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) quota.

Limit the container\'s CPU usage. By default, containers run with the
full CPU resource. The limit is a number in microseconds. If a number is
provided, the container is allowed to use that much CPU time until the
CPU period ends (controllable via **\--cpu-period**).

On some systems, changing the resource limits may not be allowed for
non-root users. For more details, see
https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/main/troubleshooting.md#26-running-containers-with-resource-limits-fails-with-a-permissions-error

This option is not supported on cgroups V1 rootless systems.

#### **\--cpu-shares**, **-c**=*shares*

CPU shares (relative weight).

By default, all containers get the same proportion of CPU cycles. This
proportion can be modified by changing the container\'s CPU share
weighting relative to the combined weight of all the running containers.
Default weight is **1024**.

The proportion only applies when CPU-intensive processes are running.
When tasks in one container are idle, other containers can use the
left-over CPU time. The actual amount of CPU time varies depending on
the number of containers running on the system.

For example, consider three containers, one has a cpu-share of 1024 and
two others have a cpu-share setting of 512. When processes in all three
containers attempt to use 100% of CPU, the first container receives 50%
of the total CPU time. If a fourth container is added with a cpu-share
of 1024, the first container only gets 33% of the CPU. The remaining
containers receive 16.5%, 16.5% and 33% of the CPU.

On a multi-core system, the shares of CPU time are distributed over all
CPU cores. Even if a container is limited to less than 100% of CPU time,
it can use 100% of each individual CPU core.

For example, consider a system with more than three cores. If the
container *C0* is started with **\--cpu-shares=512** running one
process, and another container *C1* with **\--cpu-shares=1024** running
two processes, this can result in the following division of CPU shares:

  PID   container   CPU   CPU share
  ----- ----------- ----- --------------
  100   C0          0     100% of CPU0
  101   C1          1     100% of CPU1
  102   C1          2     100% of CPU2

On some systems, changing the resource limits may not be allowed for
non-root users. For more details, see
https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/main/troubleshooting.md#26-running-containers-with-resource-limits-fails-with-a-permissions-error

This option is not supported on cgroups V1 rootless systems.

#### **\--cpuset-cpus**=*number*

CPUs in which to allow execution. Can be specified as a comma-separated
list (e.g. **0,1**), as a range (e.g. **0-3**), or any combination
thereof (e.g. **0-3,7,11-15**).

On some systems, changing the resource limits may not be allowed for
non-root users. For more details, see
https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/main/troubleshooting.md#26-running-containers-with-resource-limits-fails-with-a-permissions-error

This option is not supported on cgroups V1 rootless systems.

#### **\--cpuset-mems**=*nodes*

Memory nodes (MEMs) in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1). Only
effective on NUMA systems.

If there are four memory nodes on the system (0-3), use
**\--cpuset-mems=0,1** then processes in the container only uses memory
from the first two memory nodes.

On some systems, changing the resource limits may not be allowed for
non-root users. For more details, see
https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/main/troubleshooting.md#26-running-containers-with-resource-limits-fails-with-a-permissions-error

This option is not supported on cgroups V1 rootless systems.

#### **\--creds**=*\[username\[:password\]\]*

The \[username\[:password\]\] to use to authenticate with the registry,
if required. If one or both values are not supplied, a command line
prompt appears and the value can be entered. The password is entered
without echo.

Note that the specified credentials are only used to authenticate
against target registries. They are not used for mirrors or when the
registry gets rewritten (see `containers-registries.conf(5)`); to
authenticate against those consider using a `containers-auth.json(5)`
file.

#### **\--decryption-key**=*key\[:passphrase\]*

The \[key\[:passphrase\]\] to be used for decryption of images. Key can
point to keys and/or certificates. Decryption is tried with all keys. If
the key is protected by a passphrase, it is required to be passed in the
argument and omitted otherwise.

#### **\--device**=*host-device\[:container-device\]\[:permissions\]*

Add a host device to the container. Optional *permissions* parameter can
be used to specify device permissions by combining **r** for read, **w**
for write, and **m** for **mknod**(2).

Example: **\--device=/dev/sdc:/dev/xvdc:rwm**.

Note: if *host-device* is a symbolic link then it is resolved first. The
container only stores the major and minor numbers of the host device.

Podman may load kernel modules required for using the specified device.
The devices that Podman loads modules for when necessary are: /dev/fuse.

In rootless mode, the new device is bind mounted in the container from
the host rather than Podman creating it within the container space.
Because the bind mount retains its SELinux label on SELinux systems, the
container can get permission denied when accessing the mounted device.
Modify SELinux settings to allow containers to use all device labels via
the following command:

\$ sudo setsebool -P container_use_devices=true

Note: if the user only has access rights via a group, accessing the
device from inside a rootless container fails. The
**[crun(1)](https://github.com/containers/crun/tree/main/crun.html)**
runtime offers a workaround for this by adding the option
**\--annotation run.oci.keep_original_groups=1**.

#### **\--disable-compression**, **-D**

Don\'t compress filesystem layers when building the image unless it is
required by the location where the image is being written. This is the
default setting, because image layers are compressed automatically when
they are pushed to registries, and images being written to local storage
only need to be decompressed again to be stored. Compression can be
forced in all cases by specifying **\--disable-compression=false**.

#### **\--dns**=*ipaddr*

Set custom DNS servers.

This option can be used to override the DNS configuration passed to the
container. Typically this is necessary when the host DNS configuration
is invalid for the container (e.g., **127.0.0.1**). When this is the
case the **\--dns** flag is necessary for every run.

The special value **none** can be specified to disable creation of
*/etc/resolv.conf* in the container by Podman. The */etc/resolv.conf*
file in the image is used without changes.

This option cannot be combined with **\--network** that is set to
**none**.

Note: this option takes effect only during *RUN* instructions in the
build. It does not affect */etc/resolv.conf* in the final image.

#### **\--dns-option**=*option*

Set custom DNS options to be used during the build.

#### **\--dns-search**=*domain*

Set custom DNS search domains to be used during the build.

#### **\--env**=*env\[=value\]*

Add a value (e.g. env=*value*) to the built image. Can be used multiple
times. If neither `=` nor a *value* are specified, but *env* is set in
the current environment, the value from the current environment is added
to the image. To remove an environment variable from the built image,
use the `--unsetenv` option.

#### **\--farm**

This option specifies the name of the farm to be used in the build
process.

This option specifies the name of the farm to be used in the build
process.

#### **\--file**, **-f**=*Containerfile*

Specifies a Containerfile which contains instructions for building the
image, either a local file or an **http** or **https** URL. If more than
one Containerfile is specified, *FROM* instructions are only be accepted
from the last specified file.

If a build context is not specified, and at least one Containerfile is a
local file, the directory in which it resides is used as the build
context.

Specifying the option `-f -` causes the Containerfile contents to be
read from stdin.

#### **\--force-rm**

Always remove intermediate containers after a build, even if the build
fails (default true).

#### **\--format**

Control the format for the built image\'s manifest and configuration
data. Recognized formats include *oci* (OCI image-spec v1.0, the
default) and *docker* (version 2, using schema format 2 for the
manifest).

Note: You can also override the default format by setting the
BUILDAH_FORMAT environment variable. `export BUILDAH_FORMAT=docker`

#### **\--from**

Overrides the first `FROM` instruction within the Containerfile. If
there are multiple FROM instructions in a Containerfile, only the first
is changed.

With the remote podman client, not all container transports work as
expected. For example, oci-archive:/x.tar references /x.tar on the
remote machine instead of on the client. When using podman remote
clients it is best to restrict use to *containers-storage*, and
*docker:// transports*.

#### **\--group-add**=*group* \| *keep-groups*

Assign additional groups to the primary user running within the
container process.

-   `keep-groups` is a special flag that tells Podman to keep the
    supplementary group access.

Allows container to use the user\'s supplementary group access. If file
systems or devices are only accessible by the rootless user\'s group,
this flag tells the OCI runtime to pass the group access into the
container. Currently only available with the `crun` OCI runtime. Note:
`keep-groups` is exclusive, other groups cannot be specified with this
flag. (Not available for remote commands, including Mac and Windows
(excluding WSL2) machines)

#### **\--help**, **-h**

Print usage statement

#### **\--hooks-dir**=*path*

Each \*.json file in the path configures a hook for buildah build
containers. For more details on the syntax of the JSON files and the
semantics of hook injection. Buildah currently support both the 1.0.0
and 0.1.0 hook schemas, although the 0.1.0 schema is deprecated.

This option may be set multiple times; paths from later options have
higher precedence.

For the annotation conditions, buildah uses any annotations set in the
generated OCI configuration.

For the bind-mount conditions, only mounts explicitly requested by the
caller via \--volume are considered. Bind mounts that buildah inserts by
default (e.g. /dev/shm) are not considered.

If \--hooks-dir is unset for root callers, Buildah currently defaults to
/usr/share/containers/oci/hooks.d and /etc/containers/oci/hooks.d in
order of increasing precedence. Using these defaults is deprecated.
Migrate to explicitly setting \--hooks-dir.

#### **\--http-proxy**

By default proxy environment variables are passed into the container if
set for the Podman process. This can be disabled by setting the value to
**false**. The environment variables passed in include **http_proxy**,
**https_proxy**, **ftp_proxy**, **no_proxy**, and also the upper case
versions of those. This option is only needed when the host system must
use a proxy but the container does not use any proxy. Proxy environment
variables specified for the container in any other way overrides the
values that have been passed through from the host. (Other ways to
specify the proxy for the container include passing the values with the
**\--env** flag, or hard coding the proxy environment at container build
time.) When used with the remote client it uses the proxy environment
variables that are set on the server process.

Defaults to **true**.

#### **\--identity-label**

Adds default identity label `io.buildah.version` if set. (default true).

#### **\--ignorefile**

Path to an alternative .containerignore file.

#### **\--iidfile**=*ImageIDfile*

Write the built image\'s ID to the file. When `--platform` is specified
more than once, attempting to use this option triggers an error.

#### **\--ipc**=*how*

Sets the configuration for IPC namespaces when handling `RUN`
instructions. The configured value can be \"\" (the empty string) or
\"container\" to indicate that a new IPC namespace is created, or it can
be \"host\" to indicate that the IPC namespace in which `podman` itself
is being run is reused, or it can be the path to an IPC namespace which
is already in use by another process.

#### **\--isolation**=*type*

Controls what type of isolation is used for running processes as part of
`RUN` instructions. Recognized types include *oci* (OCI-compatible
runtime, the default), *rootless* (OCI-compatible runtime invoked using
a modified configuration and its \--rootless option enabled, with
*\--no-new-keyring \--no-pivot* added to its *create* invocation, with
network and UTS namespaces disabled, and IPC, PID, and user namespaces
enabled; the default for unprivileged users), and *chroot* (an internal
wrapper that leans more toward chroot(1) than container technology).

Note: You can also override the default isolation type by setting the
BUILDAH_ISOLATION environment variable. `export BUILDAH_ISOLATION=oci`

#### **\--jobs**=*number*

Run up to N concurrent stages in parallel. If the number of jobs is
greater than 1, stdin is read from /dev/null. If 0 is specified, then
there is no limit in the number of jobs that run in parallel.

#### **\--label**=*label*

Add an image *label* (e.g. label=*value*) to the image metadata. Can be
used multiple times.

Users can set a special LABEL
**io.containers.capabilities=CAP1,CAP2,CAP3** in a Containerfile that
specifies the list of Linux capabilities required for the container to
run properly. This label specified in a container image tells Podman to
run the container with just these capabilities. Podman launches the
container with just the specified capabilities, as long as this list of
capabilities is a subset of the default list.

If the specified capabilities are not in the default set, Podman prints
an error message and runs the container with the default capabilities.

#### **\--layer-label**=*label\[=value\]*

Add an intermediate image *label* (e.g. label=*value*) to the
intermediate image metadata. It can be used multiple times.

If *label* is named, but neither `=` nor a `value` is provided, then the
*label* is set to an empty value.

#### **\--layers**

Cache intermediate images during the build process (Default is `true`).

Note: You can also override the default value of layers by setting the
BUILDAH_LAYERS environment variable. `export BUILDAH_LAYERS=true`

#### **\--local**, **-l**

Build image on local machine as well as on farm nodes.

#### **\--logfile**=*filename*

Log output which is sent to standard output and standard error to the
specified file instead of to standard output and standard error. This
option is not supported on the remote client, including Mac and Windows
(excluding WSL2) machines.

#### **\--memory**, **-m**=*number\[unit\]*

Memory limit. A *unit* can be **b** (bytes), **k** (kibibytes), **m**
(mebibytes), or **g** (gibibytes).

Allows the memory available to a container to be constrained. If the
host supports swap memory, then the **-m** memory setting can be larger
than physical RAM. If a limit of 0 is specified (not using **-m**), the
container\'s memory is not limited. The actual limit may be rounded up
to a multiple of the operating system\'s page size (the value is very
large, that\'s millions of trillions).

This option is not supported on cgroups V1 rootless systems.

#### **\--memory-swap**=*number\[unit\]*

A limit value equal to memory plus swap. A *unit* can be **b** (bytes),
**k** (kibibytes), **m** (mebibytes), or **g** (gibibytes).

Must be used with the **-m** (**\--memory**) flag. The argument value
must be larger than that of **-m** (**\--memory**) By default, it is set
to double the value of **\--memory**.

Set *number* to **-1** to enable unlimited swap.

This option is not supported on cgroups V1 rootless systems.

#### **\--network**=*mode*, **\--net**

Sets the configuration for network namespaces when handling `RUN`
instructions.

Valid *mode* values are:

-   **none**: no networking.
-   **host**: use the Podman host network stack. Note: the host mode
    gives the container full access to local system services such as
    D-bus and is therefore considered insecure.
-   **ns:**\_path\_: path to a network namespace to join.
-   **private**: create a new namespace for the container (default)
-   **\<network name\|ID\>**: Join the network with the given name or
    ID, e.g. use `--network mynet` to join the network with the name
    mynet. Only supported for rootful users.
-   **slirp4netns\[:OPTIONS,\...\]**: use **slirp4netns**(1) to create a
    user network stack. It is possible to specify these additional
    options, they can also be set with `network_cmd_options` in
    containers.conf:
    -   **allow_host_loopback=true\|false**: Allow slirp4netns to reach
        the host loopback IP (default is 10.0.2.2 or the second IP from
        slirp4netns cidr subnet when changed, see the cidr option
        below). The default is false.
    -   **mtu=MTU**: Specify the MTU to use for this network. (Default
        is `65520`).
    -   **cidr=CIDR**: Specify ip range to use for this network.
        (Default is `10.0.2.0/24`).
    -   **enable_ipv6=true\|false**: Enable IPv6. Default is true.
        (Required for `outbound_addr6`).
    -   **outbound_addr=INTERFACE**: Specify the outbound interface
        slirp binds to (ipv4 traffic only).
    -   **outbound_addr=IPv4**: Specify the outbound ipv4 address slirp
        binds to.
    -   **outbound_addr6=INTERFACE**: Specify the outbound interface
        slirp binds to (ipv6 traffic only).
    -   **outbound_addr6=IPv6**: Specify the outbound ipv6 address slirp
        binds to.
-   **pasta\[:OPTIONS,\...\]**: use **pasta**(1) to create a user-mode
    networking stack.\
    This is the default for rootless containers and only supported in
    rootless mode.\
    By default, IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and routes, as well as the pod
    interface name, are copied from the host. If port forwarding isn\'t
    configured, ports are forwarded dynamically as services are bound on
    either side (init namespace or container namespace). Port forwarding
    preserves the original source IP address. Options described in
    pasta(1) can be specified as comma-separated arguments.\
    In terms of pasta(1) options, **\--config-net** is given by default,
    in order to configure networking when the container is started, and
    **\--no-map-gw** is also assumed by default, to avoid direct access
    from container to host using the gateway address. The latter can be
    overridden by passing **\--map-gw** in the pasta-specific options
    (despite not being an actual pasta(1) option).\
    Also, **-t none** and **-u none** are passed to disable automatic
    port forwarding based on bound ports. Similarly, **-T none** and
    **-U none** are given to disable the same functionality from
    container to host.\
    Some examples:
    -   **pasta:\--map-gw**: Allow the container to directly reach the
        host using the gateway address.
    -   **pasta:\--mtu,1500**: Specify a 1500 bytes MTU for the *tap*
        interface in the container.
    -   **pasta:\--ipv4-only,-a,10.0.2.0,-n,24,-g,10.0.2.2,\--dns-forward,10.0.2.3,-m,1500,\--no-ndp,\--no-dhcpv6,\--no-dhcp**,
        equivalent to default slirp4netns(1) options: disable IPv6,
        assign `10.0.2.0/24` to the `tap0` interface in the container,
        with gateway `10.0.2.3`, enable DNS forwarder reachable at
        `10.0.2.3`, set MTU to 1500 bytes, disable NDP, DHCPv6 and DHCP
        support.
    -   **pasta:-I,tap0,\--ipv4-only,-a,10.0.2.0,-n,24,-g,10.0.2.2,\--dns-forward,10.0.2.3,\--no-ndp,\--no-dhcpv6,\--no-dhcp**,
        equivalent to default slirp4netns(1) options with Podman
        overrides: same as above, but leave the MTU to 65520 bytes
    -   **pasta:-t,auto,-u,auto,-T,auto,-U,auto**: enable automatic port
        forwarding based on observed bound ports from both host and
        container sides
    -   **pasta:-T,5201**: enable forwarding of TCP port 5201 from
        container to host, using the loopback interface instead of the
        tap interface for improved performance

#### **\--no-cache**

Do not use existing cached images for the container build. Build from
the start with a new set of cached layers.

#### **\--no-hostname**

Do not create the */etc/hostname* file in the containers.

By default, Podman manages the */etc/hostname* file, adding the
container\'s own hostname. When the **\--no-hostname** option is set,
the image\'s */etc/hostname* will be preserved unmodified if it exists.

#### **\--no-hosts**

Do not modify the `/etc/hosts` file in the container.

Podman assumes control over the container\'s `/etc/hosts` file by
default and adds entries for the container\'s name (see **\--name**
option) and hostname (see **\--hostname** option), the internal
`host.containers.internal` and `host.docker.internal` hosts, as well as
any hostname added using the **\--add-host** option. Refer to the
**\--add-host** option for details. Passing **\--no-hosts** disables
this, so that the image\'s `/etc/hosts` file is kept unmodified. The
same can be achieved globally by setting *no_hosts=true* in
`containers.conf`.

This option conflicts with **\--add-host**.

#### **\--omit-history**

Omit build history information in the built image. (default false).

This option is useful for the cases where end users explicitly want to
set `--omit-history` to omit the optional `History` from built images or
when working with images built using build tools that do not include
`History` information in their images.

#### **\--os-feature**=*feature*

Set the name of a required operating system *feature* for the image
which is built. By default, if the image is not based on *scratch*, the
base image\'s required OS feature list is kept, if the base image
specified any. This option is typically only meaningful when the
image\'s OS is Windows.

If *feature* has a trailing `-`, then the *feature* is removed from the
set of required features which is listed in the image.

#### **\--os-version**=*version*

Set the exact required operating system *version* for the image which is
built. By default, if the image is not based on *scratch*, the base
image\'s required OS version is kept, if the base image specified one.
This option is typically only meaningful when the image\'s OS is
Windows, and is typically set in Windows base images, so using this
option is usually unnecessary.

#### **\--pid**=*pid*

Sets the configuration for PID namespaces when handling `RUN`
instructions. The configured value can be \"\" (the empty string) or
\"container\" to indicate that a new PID namespace is created, or it can
be \"host\" to indicate that the PID namespace in which `podman` itself
is being run is reused, or it can be the path to a PID namespace which
is already in use by another process.

#### **\--platforms**=*p1,p2,p3\...*

Build only on farm nodes that match the given platforms.

#### **\--pull**=*policy*

Pull image policy. The default is **missing**.

-   **always**: Always pull the image and throw an error if the pull
    fails.
-   **missing**: Only pull the image when it does not exist in the local
    containers storage. Throw an error if no image is found and the pull
    fails.
-   **never**: Never pull the image but use the one from the local
    containers storage. Throw an error when no image is found.
-   **newer**: Pull if the image on the registry is newer than the one
    in the local containers storage. An image is considered to be newer
    when the digests are different. Comparing the time stamps is prone
    to errors. Pull errors are suppressed if a local image was found.

#### **\--quiet**, **-q**

Suppress output messages which indicate which instruction is being
processed, and of progress when pulling images from a registry, and when
writing the output image.

#### **\--retry**=*attempts*

Number of times to retry pulling or pushing images between the registry
and local storage in case of failure. Default is **3**.

#### **\--retry-delay**=*duration*

Duration of delay between retry attempts when pulling or pushing images
between the registry and local storage in case of failure. The default
is to start at two seconds and then exponentially back off. The delay is
used when this value is set, and no exponential back off occurs.

#### **\--rm**

Remove intermediate containers after a successful build (default true).

#### **\--runtime**=*path*

The *path* to an alternate OCI-compatible runtime, which is used to run
commands specified by the **RUN** instruction.

Note: You can also override the default runtime by setting the
BUILDAH_RUNTIME environment variable.
`export BUILDAH_RUNTIME=/usr/local/bin/runc`

#### **\--runtime-flag**=*flag*

Adds global flags for the container runtime. To list the supported
flags, please consult the manpages of the selected container runtime.

Note: Do not pass the leading \-- to the flag. To pass the runc flag
\--log-format json to buildah build, the option given is \--runtime-flag
log-format=json.

#### **\--sbom**=*preset*

Generate SBOMs (Software Bills Of Materials) for the output image by
scanning the working container and build contexts using the named
combination of scanner image, scanner commands, and merge strategy. Must
be specified with one or more of **\--sbom-image-output**,
**\--sbom-image-purl-output**, **\--sbom-output**, and
**\--sbom-purl-output**. Recognized presets, and the set of options
which they equate to:

-   \"syft\", \"syft-cyclonedx\":
    \--sbom-scanner-image=ghcr.io/anchore/syft
    \--sbom-scanner-command=\"/syft scan -q dir:{ROOTFS} \--output
    cyclonedx-json={OUTPUT}\" \--sbom-scanner-command=\"/syft scan -q
    dir:{CONTEXT} \--output cyclonedx-json={OUTPUT}\"
    \--sbom-merge-strategy=merge-cyclonedx-by-component-name-and-version
-   \"syft-spdx\": \--sbom-scanner-image=ghcr.io/anchore/syft
    \--sbom-scanner-command=\"/syft scan -q dir:{ROOTFS} \--output
    spdx-json={OUTPUT}\" \--sbom-scanner-command=\"/syft scan -q
    dir:{CONTEXT} \--output spdx-json={OUTPUT}\"
    \--sbom-merge-strategy=merge-spdx-by-package-name-and-versioninfo
-   \"trivy\", \"trivy-cyclonedx\":
    \--sbom-scanner-image=ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy
    \--sbom-scanner-command=\"trivy filesystem -q {ROOTFS} \--format
    cyclonedx \--output {OUTPUT}\" \--sbom-scanner-command=\"trivy
    filesystem -q {CONTEXT} \--format cyclonedx \--output {OUTPUT}\"
    \--sbom-merge-strategy=merge-cyclonedx-by-component-name-and-version
-   \"trivy-spdx\": \--sbom-scanner-image=ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy
    \--sbom-scanner-command=\"trivy filesystem -q {ROOTFS} \--format
    spdx-json \--output {OUTPUT}\" \--sbom-scanner-command=\"trivy
    filesystem -q {CONTEXT} \--format spdx-json \--output {OUTPUT}\"
    \--sbom-merge-strategy=merge-spdx-by-package-name-and-versioninfo

#### **\--sbom-image-output**=*path*

When generating SBOMs, store the generated SBOM in the specified path in
the output image. There is no default.

#### **\--sbom-image-purl-output**=*path*

When generating SBOMs, scan them for PURL ([package
URL](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst))
information, and save a list of found PURLs to the specified path in the
output image. There is no default.

#### **\--sbom-merge-strategy**=*method*

If more than one **\--sbom-scanner-command** value is being used, use
the specified method to merge the output from later commands with output
from earlier commands. Recognized values include:

-   cat Concatenate the files.
-   merge-cyclonedx-by-component-name-and-version Merge the
    \"component\" fields of JSON documents, ignoring values from
    documents when the combination of their \"name\" and \"version\"
    values is already present. Documents are processed in the order in
    which they are generated, which is the order in which the commands
    that generate them were specified.
-   merge-spdx-by-package-name-and-versioninfo Merge the \"package\"
    fields of JSON documents, ignoring values from documents when the
    combination of their \"name\" and \"versionInfo\" values is already
    present. Documents are processed in the order in which they are
    generated, which is the order in which the commands that generate
    them were specified.

#### **\--sbom-output**=*file*

When generating SBOMs, store the generated SBOM in the named file on the
local filesystem. There is no default.

#### **\--sbom-purl-output**=*file*

When generating SBOMs, scan them for PURL ([package
URL](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst))
information, and save a list of found PURLs to the named file in the
local filesystem. There is no default.

#### **\--sbom-scanner-command**=*image*

Generate SBOMs by running the specified command from the scanner image.
If multiple commands are specified, they are run in the order in which
they are specified. These text substitutions are performed: - {ROOTFS}
The root of the built image\'s filesystem, bind mounted. - {CONTEXT} The
build context and additional build contexts, bind mounted. - {OUTPUT}
The name of a temporary output file, to be read and merged with others
or copied elsewhere.

#### **\--sbom-scanner-image**=*image*

Generate SBOMs using the specified scanner image.

#### **\--secret**=**id=id\[,src=*envOrFile*\]\[,env=*ENV*\]\[,type=*file* \| *env*\]**

Pass secret information to be used in the Containerfile for building
images in a safe way that will not end up stored in the final image, or
be seen in other stages. The value of the secret will be read from an
environment variable or file named by the \"id\" option, or named by the
\"src\" option if it is specified, or from an environment variable
specified by the \"env\" option. See [EXAMPLES](#examples). The secret
will be mounted in the container at `/run/secrets/id` by default.

To later use the secret, use the \--mount flag in a `RUN` instruction
within a `Containerfile`:

`RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret cat /run/secrets/mysecret`

The location of the secret in the container can be overridden using the
\"target\", \"dst\", or \"destination\" option of the `RUN --mount`
flag.

`RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret,target=/run/secrets/myothersecret cat /run/secrets/myothersecret`

Note: changing the contents of secret files will not trigger a rebuild
of layers that use said secrets.

#### **\--security-opt**=*option*

Security Options

-   `apparmor=unconfined` : Turn off apparmor confinement for the
    container

-   `apparmor=alternate-profile` : Set the apparmor confinement profile
    for the container

-   `label=user:USER` : Set the label user for the container processes

-   `label=role:ROLE` : Set the label role for the container processes

-   `label=type:TYPE` : Set the label process type for the container
    processes

-   `label=level:LEVEL` : Set the label level for the container
    processes

-   `label=filetype:TYPE` : Set the label file type for the container
    files

-   `label=disable` : Turn off label separation for the container

-   `no-new-privileges` : Not supported

-   `seccomp=unconfined` : Turn off seccomp confinement for the
    container

-   `seccomp=profile.json` : JSON file to be used as the seccomp filter
    for the container.

#### **\--shm-size**=*number\[unit\]*

Size of */dev/shm*. A *unit* can be **b** (bytes), **k** (kibibytes),
**m** (mebibytes), or **g** (gibibytes). If the unit is omitted, the
system uses bytes. If the size is omitted, the default is **64m**. When
*size* is **0**, there is no limit on the amount of memory used for IPC
by the container. This option conflicts with **\--ipc=host**.

#### **\--skip-unused-stages**

Skip stages in multi-stage builds which don\'t affect the target stage.
(Default: **true**).

#### **\--squash**

Squash all of the image\'s new layers into a single new layer; any
preexisting layers are not squashed.

#### **\--squash-all**

Squash all of the new image\'s layers (including those inherited from a
base image) into a single new layer.

#### **\--ssh**=*default* \| *id\[=socket\>*

SSH agent socket or keys to expose to the build. The socket path can be
left empty to use the value of `default=$SSH_AUTH_SOCK`

To later use the ssh agent, use the \--mount option in a `RUN`
instruction within a `Containerfile`:

`RUN --mount=type=ssh,id=id mycmd`

#### **\--tag**, **-t**=*imageName*

Specifies the name which is assigned to the resulting image if the build
process completes successfully. If *imageName* does not include a
registry name, the registry name *localhost* is prepended to the image
name.

#### **\--target**=*stageName*

Set the target build stage to build. When building a Containerfile with
multiple build stages, \--target can be used to specify an intermediate
build stage by name as the final stage for the resulting image. Commands
after the target stage is skipped.

#### **\--timestamp**=*seconds*

Set the create timestamp to seconds since epoch to allow for
deterministic builds (defaults to current time). By default, the created
timestamp is changed and written into the image manifest with every
commit, causing the image\'s sha256 hash to be different even if the
sources are exactly the same otherwise. When \--timestamp is set, the
created timestamp is always set to the time specified and therefore not
changed, allowing the image\'s sha256 hash to remain the same. All files
committed to the layers of the image is created with the timestamp.

If the only instruction in a Containerfile is `FROM`, this flag has no
effect.

#### **\--tls-verify**

Require HTTPS and verify certificates when contacting registries
(default: **true**). If explicitly set to **true**, TLS verification is
used. If set to **false**, TLS verification is not used. If not
specified, TLS verification is used unless the target registry is listed
as an insecure registry in
**[containers-registries.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-registries.conf.5.md)**

#### **\--ulimit**=*type=soft-limit\[:hard-limit\]*

Specifies resource limits to apply to processes launched when processing
`RUN` instructions. This option can be specified multiple times.
Recognized resource types include: \"core\": maximum core dump size
(ulimit -c) \"cpu\": maximum CPU time (ulimit -t) \"data\": maximum size
of a process\'s data segment (ulimit -d) \"fsize\": maximum size of new
files (ulimit -f) \"locks\": maximum number of file locks (ulimit -x)
\"memlock\": maximum amount of locked memory (ulimit -l) \"msgqueue\":
maximum amount of data in message queues (ulimit -q) \"nice\": niceness
adjustment (nice -n, ulimit -e) \"nofile\": maximum number of open files
(ulimit -n) \"nproc\": maximum number of processes (ulimit -u) \"rss\":
maximum size of a process\'s (ulimit -m) \"rtprio\": maximum real-time
scheduling priority (ulimit -r) \"rttime\": maximum amount of real-time
execution between blocking syscalls \"sigpending\": maximum number of
pending signals (ulimit -i) \"stack\": maximum stack size (ulimit -s)

#### **\--unsetenv**=*env*

Unset environment variables from the final image.

#### **\--unsetlabel**=*label*

Unset the image label, causing the label not to be inherited from the
base image.

#### **\--userns**=*how*

Sets the configuration for user namespaces when handling `RUN`
instructions. The configured value can be \"\" (the empty string) or
\"container\" to indicate that a new user namespace is created, it can
be \"host\" to indicate that the user namespace in which `podman` itself
is being run is reused, or it can be the path to a user namespace which
is already in use by another process.

#### **\--userns-gid-map**=*mapping*

Directly specifies a GID mapping to be used to set ownership, at the
filesystem level, on the working container\'s contents. Commands run
when handling `RUN` instructions defaults to being run in their own user
namespaces, configured using the UID and GID maps.

Entries in this map take the form of one or more triples of a starting
in-container GID, a corresponding starting host-level GID, and the
number of consecutive IDs which the map entry represents.

This option overrides the *remap-gids* setting in the *options* section
of /etc/containers/storage.conf.

If this option is not specified, but a global \--userns-gid-map setting
is supplied, settings from the global option is used.

If none of \--userns-uid-map-user, \--userns-gid-map-group, or
\--userns-gid-map are specified, but \--userns-uid-map is specified, the
GID map is set to use the same numeric values as the UID map.

#### **\--userns-gid-map-group**=*group*

Specifies that a GID mapping to be used to set ownership, at the
filesystem level, on the working container\'s contents, can be found in
entries in the `/etc/subgid` file which correspond to the specified
group. Commands run when handling `RUN` instructions defaults to being
run in their own user namespaces, configured using the UID and GID maps.
If \--userns-uid-map-user is specified, but \--userns-gid-map-group is
not specified, `podman` assumes that the specified user name is also a
suitable group name to use as the default setting for this option.

**NOTE:** When this option is specified by a rootless user, the
specified mappings are relative to the rootless user namespace in the
container, rather than being relative to the host as it is when run
rootful.

#### **\--userns-uid-map**=*mapping*

Directly specifies a UID mapping to be used to set ownership, at the
filesystem level, on the working container\'s contents. Commands run
when handling `RUN` instructions default to being run in their own user
namespaces, configured using the UID and GID maps.

Entries in this map take the form of one or more triples of a starting
in-container UID, a corresponding starting host-level UID, and the
number of consecutive IDs which the map entry represents.

This option overrides the *remap-uids* setting in the *options* section
of /etc/containers/storage.conf.

If this option is not specified, but a global \--userns-uid-map setting
is supplied, settings from the global option is used.

If none of \--userns-uid-map-user, \--userns-gid-map-group, or
\--userns-uid-map are specified, but \--userns-gid-map is specified, the
UID map is set to use the same numeric values as the GID map.

#### **\--userns-uid-map-user**=*user*

Specifies that a UID mapping to be used to set ownership, at the
filesystem level, on the working container\'s contents, can be found in
entries in the `/etc/subuid` file which correspond to the specified
user. Commands run when handling `RUN` instructions defaults to being
run in their own user namespaces, configured using the UID and GID maps.
If \--userns-gid-map-group is specified, but \--userns-uid-map-user is
not specified, `podman` assumes that the specified group name is also a
suitable user name to use as the default setting for this option.

**NOTE:** When this option is specified by a rootless user, the
specified mappings are relative to the rootless user namespace in the
container, rather than being relative to the host as it is when run
rootful.

#### **\--uts**=*how*

Sets the configuration for UTS namespaces when handling `RUN`
instructions. The configured value can be \"\" (the empty string) or
\"container\" to indicate that a new UTS namespace to be created, or it
can be \"host\" to indicate that the UTS namespace in which `podman`
itself is being run is reused, or it can be the path to a UTS namespace
which is already in use by another process.

#### **\--volume**, **-v**=*\[HOST-DIR:CONTAINER-DIR\[:OPTIONS\]\]*

Mount a host directory into containers when executing RUN instructions
during the build.

The `OPTIONS` are a comma-separated list and can be one or more of:

-   \[rw\|ro\]
-   \[z\|Z\|O\]
-   \[U\]
-   \[`[r]shared`\|`[r]slave`\|`[r]private`\]^[\[1\]](#Footnote1)^

The `CONTAINER-DIR` must be an absolute path such as `/src/docs`. The
`HOST-DIR` must be an absolute path as well. Podman bind-mounts the
`HOST-DIR` to the specified path when processing RUN instructions.

You can specify multiple **-v** options to mount one or more mounts.

You can add the `:ro` or `:rw` suffix to a volume to mount it read-only
or read-write mode, respectively. By default, the volumes are mounted
read-write. See examples.

`Chowning Volume Mounts`

By default, Podman does not change the owner and group of source volume
directories mounted. When running using user namespaces, the UID and GID
inside the namespace may correspond to another UID and GID on the host.

The `:U` suffix tells Podman to use the correct host UID and GID based
on the UID and GID within the namespace, to change recursively the owner
and group of the source volume.

**Warning** use with caution since this modifies the host filesystem.

`Labeling Volume Mounts`

Labeling systems like SELinux require that proper labels are placed on
volume content mounted into a container. Without a label, the security
system might prevent the processes running inside the container from
using the content. By default, Podman does not change the labels set by
the OS.

To change a label in the container context, add one of these two
suffixes `:z` or `:Z` to the volume mount. These suffixes tell Podman to
relabel file objects on the shared volumes. The `z` option tells Podman
that two containers share the volume content. As a result, Podman labels
the content with a shared content label. Shared volume labels allow all
containers to read/write content. The `Z` option tells Podman to label
the content with a private unshared label. Only the current container
can use a private volume.

Note: Do not relabel system files and directories. Relabeling system
content might cause other confined services on the host machine to fail.
For these types of containers, disabling SELinux separation is
recommended. The option `--security-opt label=disable` disables SELinux
separation for the container. For example, if a user wanted to volume
mount their entire home directory into the build containers, they need
to disable SELinux separation.

    $ podman build --security-opt label=disable -v $HOME:/home/user .

`Overlay Volume Mounts`

The `:O` flag tells Podman to mount the directory from the host as a
temporary storage using the Overlay file system. The `RUN` command
containers are allowed to modify contents within the mountpoint and are
stored in the container storage in a separate directory. In Overlay FS
terms the source directory is the lower, and the container storage
directory is the upper. Modifications to the mount point are destroyed
when the `RUN` command finishes executing, similar to a tmpfs mount
point.

Any subsequent execution of `RUN` commands sees the original source
directory content, any changes from previous RUN commands no longer
exists.

One use case of the `overlay` mount is sharing the package cache from
the host into the container to allow speeding up builds.

Note:

-   Overlay mounts are not currently supported in rootless mode.
-   The `O` flag is not allowed to be specified with the `Z` or `z`
    flags. Content mounted into the container is labeled with the
    private label. On SELinux systems, labels in the source directory
    needs to be readable by the container label. If not, SELinux
    container separation must be disabled for the container to work.
-   Modification of the directory volume mounted into the container with
    an overlay mount can cause unexpected failures. Do not modify the
    directory until the container finishes running.

By default bind mounted volumes are `private`. That means any mounts
done inside containers are not be visible on the host and vice versa.
This behavior can be changed by specifying a volume mount propagation
property.

When the mount propagation policy is set to `shared`, any mounts
completed inside the container on that volume is visible to both the
host and container. When the mount propagation policy is set to `slave`,
one way mount propagation is enabled and any mounts completed on the
host for that volume is visible only inside of the container. To control
the mount propagation property of volume use the `:[r]shared`,
`:[r]slave` or `:[r]private` propagation flag. For mount propagation to
work on the source mount point (mount point where source dir is mounted
on) has to have the right propagation properties. For shared volumes,
the source mount point has to be shared. And for slave volumes, the
source mount has to be either shared or slave. ^[\[1\]](#Footnote1)^

Use `df <source-dir>` to determine the source mount and then use
`findmnt -o TARGET,PROPAGATION <source-mount-dir>` to determine
propagation properties of source mount, if `findmnt` utility is not
available, the source mount point can be determined by looking at the
mount entry in `/proc/self/mountinfo`. Look at `optional fields` and see
if any propagation properties are specified. `shared:X` means the mount
is `shared`, `master:X` means the mount is `slave` and if nothing is
there that means the mount is `private`. ^[\[1\]](#Footnote1)^

To change propagation properties of a mount point use the `mount`
command. For example, to bind mount the source directory `/foo` do
`mount --bind /foo /foo` and `mount --make-private --make-shared /foo`.
This converts /foo into a `shared` mount point. The propagation
properties of the source mount can be changed directly. For instance if
`/` is the source mount for `/foo`, then use `mount --make-shared /` to
convert `/` into a `shared` mount.

##  EXAMPLES

Build named image and manifest list using specified Containerfile with
default farm:

    $ podman farm build --local -t name -f /path/to/containerfile .

Build named image and manifest list using the specified farm:

    $ podman farm build --farm myfarm -t name .

Build named image and manifest list using the specified farm, removing
all images from farm nodes, after they are pushed to registry:

    $ podman farm build --farm myfarm --cleanup -t name .

Build named images and manifest list for specified platforms using
default farm:

    $ podman farm build --platforms arm64,amd64 -t name .

##  SEE ALSO

**[podman(1)](podman.html)**, **[podman-farm(1)](podman-farm.html)**,
**[buildah(1)](https://github.com/containers/buildah/blob/main/docs/buildah.html)**,
**[containers-certs.d(5)](https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-certs.d.5.md)**,
**[containers-registries.conf(5)](https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-registries.conf.5.md)**,
**[crun(1)](https://github.com/containers/crun/blob/main/crun.html)**,
**[runc(8)](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/main/man/runc.8.md)**,
**[useradd(8)](https://www.unix.com/man-page/redhat/8/useradd)**,
**[Containerfile(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/Containerfile.5.md)**,
**[containerignore(5)](https://github.com/containers/common/blob/main/docs/containerignore.5.md)**

##  HISTORY

September 2023, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani
`<umohnani@redhat.com>`

##  FOOTNOTES

[1]{#Footnote1}: The Podman project is committed to inclusivity, a core
value of open source. The `master` and `slave` mount propagation
terminology used here is problematic and divisive, and needs to be
changed. However, these terms are currently used within the Linux kernel
and must be used as-is at this time. When the kernel maintainers rectify
this usage, Podman will follow suit immediately.


---

<a id='podman-farm-create'></a>

## podman-farm-create - Create a new farm

##  NAME

podman-farm-create - Create a new farm

##  SYNOPSIS

**podman farm create** *name* \[*connections*\]

##  DESCRIPTION

Create a new farm with connections that Podman knows about which were
added via the *podman system connection add* command.

An empty farm can be created without adding any connections to it. Add
or remove connections from a farm via the *podman farm update* command.

##  EXAMPLE

Create the specified farm:

    $ podman farm create farm2

Create multiple farms:

    $ podman farm create farm1 f37 f38

##  SEE ALSO

**[podman(1)](podman.html)**, **[podman-farm(1)](podman-farm.html)**,
**[podman-system-connection(1)](podman-system-connection.html)**,
**[podman-system-connection-add(1)](podman-system-connection-add.html)**

##  HISTORY

July 2023, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani (umohnani at redhat
dot com)


---

<a id='podman-farm-list'></a>

## podman-farm-list - List the existing farms

##  NAME

podman-farm-list - List the existing farms

##  SYNOPSIS

**podman farm list** \[*options*\]

**podman farm ls** \[*options*\]

##  DESCRIPTION

List all the existing farms.

##  OPTIONS

#### **\--format**=*format*

Change the default output format. This can be of a supported type like
\'json\' or a Go template. Valid placeholders for the Go template listed
below:

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Placeholder**   **Description**
  ----------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  .Connections      List of all system connections in the farm

  .Default          Indicates whether farm is the default

  .Name             Farm name

  .ReadWrite        Indicates if this farm can be modified using the podman
                    farm commands
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

##  EXAMPLE

List all farms:

    $ podman farm list
    Name        Connections  Default     ReadWrite
    farm1       [f38 f37]    false       true
    farm2       [f37]        true        true

##  SEE ALSO

**[podman(1)](podman.html)**, **[podman-farm(1)](podman-farm.html)**

##  HISTORY

July 2023, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani (umohnani at redhat
dot com)


---

<a id='podman-farm-remove'></a>

## podman-farm-remove - Delete one or more farms

##  NAME

podman-farm-remove - Delete one or more farms

##  SYNOPSIS

**podman farm remove** \[*options*\] *name*

**podman farm rm** \[*options*\] *name*

##  DESCRIPTION

Delete one or more farms.

##  OPTIONS

#### **\--all**, **-a**

Remove all farms.

##  EXAMPLE

Remove specified farm:

    $ podman farm remove farm1

Remove all farms:

    $ podman farm rm --all

##  SEE ALSO

**[podman(1)](podman.html)**, **[podman-farm(1)](podman-farm.html)**

##  HISTORY

July 2023, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani (umohnani at redhat
dot com)s


---

<a id='podman-farm-update'></a>

## podman-farm-update - Update an existing farm

##  NAME

podman-farm-update - Update an existing farm

##  SYNOPSIS

**podman farm update** \[*options*\] *name*

##  DESCRIPTION

Update a farm by either adding connections to it, removing connections
from it, or setting it as the new default farm.

##  OPTIONS

#### **\--add**, **-a**

Add new connections to an existing farm. Multiple connections can be
added at once.

#### **\--default**, **-d**

Set the current farm as the default.

#### **\--remove**, **-r**

Remove one or more connections from an existing farm.

##  EXAMPLE

Add two connections to specified farm:

    $ podman farm update --add f35,f38 farm1

Add connection to specified farm:

    $ podman farm update --remove f35 farm1

Change specified farm to be default:

    $ podman farm update --default farm2

##  SEE ALSO

**[podman(1)](podman.html)**, **[podman-farm(1)](podman-farm.html)**

##  HISTORY

July 2023, Originally compiled by Urvashi Mohnani (umohnani at redhat
dot com)s


---

